let us implement a solution for this problem
In this function search in sort 2D matrix
It takes the 2D array number of rows number
of columns and the search element
n as parameters let us declare two variables i and
j
We are going to start the search from last element
in the first row so let us Initialise I to 0 and J
to column minus one
Next let us have a while loop in each iteration
first that is compare n with array of IJ if
n equal to equal to array of IJ
If this is true then we have found the search
element in matrix
Thus written true else check if n is greater than
array of IJ
If true it means that the search element cannot be
present Ith Row
And so we can continue to compare the next element
in Jth column So increment I Now if control comes
to else part it means n less than array of
IJ so we can eliminate Jth column and move to
the proceeding element in
Ith Row for that decrement J what condition can we
give for this while loop in each iteration we are
either incremental I or Decrement J Initially I's value
is zero
We can increment I till it reaches the last row
index that row minus one
So add this condition I less than or equal to
row minus one likewise J cannot be reduced below zero
So add and J greater than or equal to zero
If either of these conditions becomes false the control will
come out of the while loop
If n is present in the 2D matrix
this condition will pass in any one of the iteration
and that's true will be returned
And in case if control comes out of the while
loop we can conclude that n is not present in
this matrix and hence we can written false.